This is the continuation of the discussion
for the passive reconnaissance techniques.
DNS querying queries for name resolution
information can reveal the target's network
structure. Standard queries identify IP
addresses associated with domain name.
Advanced queries retrieve additional DNS records
and some querying tools may be used
such as nslookup and dig in Linux.
Email addresses one of the most useful elements
of contact information is an email address.
The main point of contact for most organizations
is also email addresses so email addresses
are also commonly used as account names.
Enumerating email-based DNS records is also
useful for conducting passive reconnaissance.
Shodan is a search engine that enables anyone to
connect to public or improperly secure devices
that allow remote access through the internet.
An example scenario is when a zoo sets up an
IP camera for anyone to watch the animals.
Shodan indexes the connection and
allows anyone to search for it.
Most devices found in shodan are
improperly secured or not secured at all.
theHarvester. It is an open source
OSINT tool that gathers several
different types of background information
on a target. It gathers subdomain names,
employee names, email addresses, PGP key entries,
and open ports as well as service banners.
theHarvester uses general search
engines such as Google and Bing.
Recon-NG it is a command line open
source for gathering OSINT data.
The functions of recon ng are similar
to the harvester but more robust.
Maltego. it is a graphical awesome
tool that can gather a wide variety
of information on public resources;
Features awesome objects graphically
and with links to the other objects it helps
the user to visualize OSINT relationships
Foca. Foca or known as Fingerprinting
Organizations with Collected
Archives is a GUI OSINT tool that
discovers metadata that may be
hidden within documents. It documents
typically downloaded files from the web
it can also work with variety of the document
types such as office, open document, and more.
It uses a search engine like google to identify
files. It extracts useful metadata such as names
software, or operating system versions ,
printer information, and plain text passwords
Here are the following guidelines
for gathering background information.
First, understand that not all
gathered information will be useful.
Second, understand the difference between
OSINT and closed-source intelligence.
Third, recognize which sources provide
OSINT and which do not. Fourth,
perform whois queries to obtain
registration information.
Fifth, examine organization's main site for
personal and business information. Sixth,
look for related sites to
corroborate or expand your OSINT.
Seventh, look over social media
profiles for revealing information.
Eight, search job boards for personal
issues or technology information.
Ninth, conduct google hacking to run
advanced queries on websites and then
the last on this page, examine news articles
to stay up to date on target's business.
Here are more guidelines for
gathering background information.